how much do you get paid
don't don't answer that out loud but put
a number in your head now how much do
you think the person sitting next to you
gets paid again don't answer out loud at
work how much do you think the person
sitting in the cubicle or the desk next
to you gets paid do you know should you
know notice it's a little uncomfortable
for me to even ask you those questions
but admit it you kind of want to know
most of us are uncomfortable with the
idea of broadcasting our salary we're
not supposed to tell our neighbors and
we're definitely not supposed to tell
our office neighbors the assumed reason
is that if everybody knew what everybody
got paid then all hell would break loose
there'd be arguments there'd be fights
there might even be a few people who
quit but what if secrecy is actually the
reason for all that strife and what
would happen if we removed that secrecy
what if openness actually increased the
sense of fairness and collaboration
inside a company what would happen if we
had total pay transparency for the past
several years I've been studying the
corporate and entrepreneurial leaders
who question the conventional wisdom
about how to run a company and the
question of pay keeps coming up and the
answers keep surprising it turns out
that pay transparency sharing salaries
openly across a company makes for a
better workplace for both the employee
and for the organization when people
don't know how their pay compares to
their peers they're more likely to feel
underpaid and maybe even discriminated
against do you want to work at a place
that tolerates the idea that you feel
underpaid or discriminated against but
keeping salaries secret does exactly
that and it's a practice as old as it is
common despite the fact that in the
United States the law protects an
employee's right to discuss their pay
in one famous example from decades ago
the management of Vanity Fair magazine
actually circulated a memo entitled
forbidding discussion among employees of
salary received forbidding discussion
among employees of salary received now
that memo didn't sit well with everybody
that New York literary figures Dorothy
Parker Robert Benchley and Robert
Sherwood all writers in the Algonquin
Round Table decided to stand up for
transparency and showed up for work the
next day with their salary written on
signs hanging from their neck imagine
showing up for work with your salary
just written across your chest for all
to see but why would a company even want
to discourage salary discussions why do
some people go along with it while
others revolt against it it turns out
that in addition to the ensuing reasons
pay secrecy is actually a way to save a
lot of money you see keeping salaries
secret leads to what economists call
information asymmetry this is a
situation where in that negotiation one
party has loads more information than
the other and in hiring or promotion or
annual raves discussions an employer can
use that secrecy to save a lot of money
imagine how much better you could
negotiate for a raise if you knew
everybody's salary economists warned
that information asymmetry can cause
markets to go awry someone leaves a pay
stub on the copier and suddenly
everybody is shouting at each other in
fact they even warn that information
asymmetry can lead to a total market
failure and I think we're almost there
and here's why first most employees have
no idea how their pay compares to their
peers in a 2015 survey of 70,000
employees two-thirds of everyone who's
paid at the market rate said that they
felt they were underpaid and if
everybody who felt that they were
underpaid 60% said that they intended to
quit regardless of where they were
underpaid overpaid or right at the
market rate if you were part of this
survey what would you say are you
underpaid well wait how do you even know
because you're not allowed to talk about
it
next information asymmetry pays secrecy
makes it easier to ignore the
discrimination that's already present in
the market today in a 2011 report from
the Institute for Women's policy
research the gender wage gap between men
and women was 23% this is where that 77
cents on the dollar comes from but in
the federal government where salaries
are pinned to certain levels and
everybody knows what those levels are
the gender wage gap shrinks to 11% and
this is before controlling for any of
the factors that economists argue over
whether or not to control for if we
really want to close the gender wage gap
maybe we should start by opening up the
payroll if this is what total market
failure looks like then openness remains
the only way to ensure fairness now I
realize that letting people know what
you make might feel uncomfortable but
isn't it less uncomfortable than always
wondering if you're being discriminated
against or if your wife or your daughter
or your sister is being paid unfairly
openness remains the best way to ensure
fairness and pay transparency does that
and that's why entrepreneurial leaders
and corporate leaders have been
experimenting with sharing salaries for
years like Dane Atkinson Dane is a
serial entrepreneur who started many
companies in a pay secrecy condition and
even use that condition to pay to
equally qualified people dramatically
different salaries depending on how well
they could negotiate and Dane saw the
strife that happened as a result of this
so when he started his newest company
some all he committed to salary
transparency from the beginning and the
results have been amazing and in study
after study when people know how they're
being paid and how that pay compares to
their peers they're more likely to work
hard to improve their performance
they're more likely to be engaged and
they're less likely to quit
that's why Dane is not alone from
technology startups like buffer to the
tens of thousands of employees at Whole
Foods where not only is your salary
available for everyone to see but the
performance data for the store and for
your department is available on the
company intranet for all to see
now pay transparency takes a lot of
forms it's not one-size-fits-all some
post their salaries for all to see some
only keep it inside the company some
post the formula for calculating pay and
others post the pay levels and a fix
everybody to that level so you don't
have to make signs for all of your
employees to wear around the office and
you don't have to be the only one
wearing a sign that you made at home but
we can all take greater steps towards
pay transparency for those of you that
have the authority to move forward
towards transparency it's time to move
forward and for those of you that don't
have that authority it's time to stand
up for your right to so how much do you
get paid and how does that compare to
the people you work with you should know
and so should they thank you